---
title: "Seminars"
author: "Mark Forster"
date: 2006-10-14
original_url: "http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2006/10/14/seminars.html"
layout: post
---

Yesterday was the last of my three-hour seminars. They have been a great success over the two years or so that I have been running them, but now that Do It Tomorrow has been published it is time for something new.

My plan is that I will run one-day seminars for people who have read the book. By its very nature, a book like Do It Tomorrow is aimed at a general public, and can only go so far towards the needs of specific individuals. The seminars I am planning will give people the chance to apply the principles to their own circumstances. The seminars will be highly interactive, and people will also be able to share their experiences of putting the principles to work.

Those are my first thoughts. I would welcome comments on the subject.


## Comments

---

**Author:** Gill
**Date:** 2006-10-14

Sounds like a great idea, Mark.  
PLease come North to do one! I attended a Seminar in Alderley edge last year which helped me a lot, but the new book has moved things on enormously for me.  
Thank you.  
  
Gill

---

**Author:** Gareth
**Date:** 2006-10-16

West Sussex isn't the best location for me. Would love to come on one - but please go for Oxford or Birmingham.  
(Warwick/Leamington Spa is even better!)  
  
The content looks excellent - I'm curious as to how you can deliver all those outcomes in an afternoon. If you can, that would be outstanding.  
  
The key question for me is also how to ensure that you keep the momentum and motivation up - not slipping back to your 'bad old days'  
  
Thanks  
  
Gareth

---

**Author:** John
**Date:** 2006-10-17

I find the personal dialogue of your practical experiences with time management to be both fascinating and really helpful to my own development efforts. So your one day seminar is a great idea. In a workshop format you would have time to develop your ideas and connect them practically with the delegates and for them to do the same. I should be interested to know how you intend to limit the "air time" of those perenniel seminar attendees who want to talk-the-talk but clearly do not walk-the-talk! (to resurrect a quaint old fashioned management term)   
Please bring the seminar to Leeds!

---

**Author:** Sandra Borland
**Date:** 2006-10-17

Hi Mark  
  
Please come North - Scotland would be best of all, but can travel to Manchester or Birmingham. Have benefitted from all your books, particularly Do It Tomorrow, but would love to attend a Seminar.  
  
Thanks, Sandra

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2006-10-18

If I'm going to run the seminars in places other than Horsham, I need someone to sponsor the event, i.e. book and pay for the venue and publicise the event locally. In return for which they would get free attendance for themselves and a cut of any sales of tickets they make. Any volunteers?

---
