---
title: "Blogroll"
author: "Mark Forster"
date: 2008-03-01
categories: ['Blog Administration']
original_url: "http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2008/3/1/blogroll.html"
layout: post
---

I’ve started a Blogroll of useful blogs for time management and personal organisation. You’ll find it at the bottom of the left-hand margin. I’ve only got a few entries on it at the moment but will be adding more as I go along.

If you have a blog relevant to the subject and would like me to consider it for inclusion, please let me have the details by email ( mf@markforster.squarespace.com ).


## Comments

---

**Author:** Jack Collins
**Date:** 2008-03-01

How ironic, I just added your site to my blog roll today and then noticed this post! I also blogged about your book and the DIT method for the first time today ( <http://tinyurl.com/2o6ays> ).   
  
Thank you for all you're doing, I'm excited to get learn more about DIT and your other ideas in the productivity space. JACK

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2008-03-02

Hi, Jack  
  
Thanks very much for the mention. I'll be very interested in how you find DIT in your work.   
  
I enjoyed looking at your blog. I see we have similar ideas on politics - whether left or right are "in power" the system is broken - even more so in Britain I think than in the States.  
  
DIT is very good for keeping up the regularity of your blog postings - whenever you think of a subject for a posting just put it in your Task Diary for tomorrow.

---

**Author:** Mark in Texas
**Date:** 2008-03-08

I dont see the link "at the bottom of the left hand margin". The bottom-most item is Litemind.  
  
How about a url?

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2008-03-08

Hi, Mark  
  
Litemind is the last item on the blogroll. You'll see that it comes under a main heading (white on blue) of "Useful Blogs".

---

**Author:** Luciano Passuello
**Date:** 2008-03-11

Hi Mark,  
  
Thanks for including Litemind in your blogroll.   
I feel really honored.

---
