---
title: "Seminars"
author: "Mark Forster"
date: 2008-04-01
categories: ['Do It Tomorrow', 'Seminars']
original_url: "http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2008/4/1/seminars.html"
layout: post
---

I’m just in the process of drawing up a schedule of seminars for the rest of the year. My current plans include running the introductory three-hour “Do It Tomorrow” seminars again, which I haven’t run since 2006, plus some more one-day follow-up seminars. I might possibly do both as a package for a reduced price. I’ll also be investigating the possibility of doing some teleseminars for those who are unable to make it to the South East of England.

I’m also thinking of doing a few seminars on other subjects. One subject which is particularly attractive to me is “How to Manage Other People’s Time”. This is a subject which will interest anyone who has ever tried to get other people to do things on time (or indeed at all) - that is to say, everyone!

Another possible subject is “Accessing the Unconscious Mind”.

I’d welcome suggestions for other subjects.

Meanwhile here is the feedback from the one-day “Do It Tomorrow” seminar which I ran last Thursday:

“A really good seminar that will start the process for me to get back to basics with my time management. I am going to start using the processes discussed straight away (and read the book at the same time!)” James Reed.

“A great seminar - everything fell into place. I now feel confident that I will be able to put some order and structure into my work/life straight away. The day also helped with personal goal setting and achievement. Confirmation that we don’t need to overcomplicate things.” Neil Herries.

“Very useful to implement the Do It Tomorrow system. Helped to focus on my particular problem areas. Self-coaching technique was also helpful.” Lorraine Wakefield.

“A very useful review and very good clarification of points I had been unclear on - fixed some holds in my own time management.” Mike Collins.

“Thanks for being patient with me. I hope I can put it into practice. It’s heartening that the system is designed for people who aren’t naturally organised and that you’ve kept it simple!” Dominique.

“Very good seminar going through a number of aspects of the book in detail. The seminar (I hope!) will provide a greater focus to getting things organised in my working life and, by default, my personal life.” Mark Reed.
