---
title: "Twitter"
author: "Mark Forster"
date: 2009-02-09
categories: ['Autofocus']
original_url: "http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2009/2/9/twitter.html"
layout: post
---

You can now follow my Autofocus adventures on Twitter - screen name AutofocusTM


## Comments

---

**Author:** Tom Colvin
**Date:** 2009-02-10

I discovered you and your blog via Twitter this morning -- and of course I'm now following you, as well as reading your blog in Feed Demon.  
  
As a writer who blogs about productivity for writers, I am very intrigued by AutoFocusTM. It seems ideal for a writer's mind, which so often operates in spurts. I've already blogged about your public announcement of the system. I suspect a bunch of writers will head over your way. I certainly look forward to keeping tabs on your posts.

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2009-02-10

Thanks, Tom. I've looked at your blog - very interesting - and left a comment on your article about Autofocus.

---

**Author:** Balfour
**Date:** 2009-02-13

Also, what about an RSS link for this? I just put it into my RSS reader by pasting in "twitter.com/AutofocusTM"

---

**Author:** Ron Davies
**Date:** 2009-02-21

Hi Mark,  
  
as a professional in Internet marketing consulting, I am quite active on the public speaking circuit, involved heavily in product development, active in my community, and run 2 businesses of growing concern outside the scope of my other activities. All this on top of the family I need quality time for (they are top of the list).  
  
Managing incoming information, and sorting it into things I can or cannot act on, and the order to act on them, can be a daunting task, particularly during golf season, when my terrible swing seems to take even more of my time (really, it is that bad :)  
  
I am going to spend some time with your material, and hope it will help me better manage time, motions, activities, and maybe find time for that swing as well!  
  
Great blog, thank you.  
  
Ron Davies

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2009-02-21

Thanks, Ron. I myself am finding AF ideal for this sort of mix.

---
