---
title: "Day 6"
author: "Mark Forster"
date: "Thursday, February 4, 2010 at 22:01"
original_url: "http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2010/2/4/day-6.html"
layout: post
---

All still going well with DWM. I don’t remember enjoying working any of my previous systems as much as this one.I’ve now completed all the actions for the first three pages: Feb 6, 7 and 8 and there is only one left on Feb 9, so I don’t think I will have any tasks being dismissed until Wednesday next week at the earliest.

## Comments

### Comment 1
**Author:** Alan Baljeu
**Date:** February 4, 2010 at 22:49

If you wanted to challenge yourself you could activate more tasks tomorrow and see if you can keep up in the coming week. Of course seeing as you are retired, I'm not sure you'd really want to do that :-)

---

### Comment 2
**Author:** David Drake
**Date:** February 4, 2010 at 23:09

This is great news, Mark! I am glad it is working so well for you. And you know what -- it is for me too!-David

---

### Comment 3
**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** February 5, 2010 at 1:02

Alan:<< If you wanted to challenge yourself you could activate more tasks tomorrow and see if you can keep up in the coming week. >>Not sure I understand what you mean, Alan. I will be activating more tasks tomorrow as a matter of course. That's what happens when the system is done correctly.

---

### Comment 4
**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** February 5, 2010 at 1:03

David:Great to hear that!

---

### Comment 5
**Author:** Alan Baljeu
**Date:** February 5, 2010 at 5:07

I was being a little facetious Mark. As I understand things, the best way (and easiest way) to operate is to get things finished such that they aren't in danger of being dismissed. You seem to be succeeding admirably at this.The question is how many tasks you choose to activate. If you activate 50 distinct tasks tomorrow, and another 50 the following day - I think you'd agree this is a bad idea - then you would experience what it's like to have too many things going at once. I imagine you'd be hard-pressed to keep them all juggled at once.

---

### Comment 6
**Author:** Alan Baljeu
**Date:** February 5, 2010 at 5:08

er that last phrase sounded confusing. I mean juggling 100 tasks at once, by working on them all and throwing them each out to next week, before they hit ground and get lost.

---

### Comment 7
**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** February 5, 2010 at 9:58

Alan:I see what you mean. However there should come a point at which the number of tasks being completed (i.e. finished entirely) at least equals the number of new re-entries. Beyond that point the list shouldn't grow any more. Sounds good in theory anyway!We'll just have to see what happens!

---

### Comment 8
**Author:** Alan Baljeu
**Date:** February 5, 2010 at 11:52

Doesn't that assume all tasks entered will be completed? I expect rather that some just don't need doing.

---

### Comment 9
**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** February 5, 2010 at 13:39

Alan:No, I was assuming that you would be able to achieve a stable state in which you were able to complete all the tasks that you want to complete.

---
