---
title: "Books"
author: "Mark Forster"
date: "Wednesday, January 18, 2012 at 19:31"
categories: ['Books']
original_url: "http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2012/1/18/books.html"
layout: post
---

I’ve now added Books as a tab in the main menu. Do have a look at it. You can buy my books Get Everything Done and Still Have Time to Play and Do It Tomorrow there, plus my recommendations for other books on the subject of “time management and personal organization”. I have interpreted that quite loosely, so you will find books like The E-Myth Revisited and What Color Is Your Parachute there. Basically most of them are the books that I have found most helpful in my life and work, plus a few highly recommended by colleagues and clients (or even written by them). There are also links provided by Amazon to similar books which are well worth exploring.

## Comments

### Comment 1
**Author:** Alan Baljeu
**Date:** January 18, 2012 at 20:41

E-Myth Revisited is the one book I feel like I should get a lot out of, but don't. Gerber's concept of developing business systems is often on my mind, but in 3 years I'm still struggling to grasp what exactly it means in practice. I wish he gave examples outside of consumer services (McDonald's, pie shop, hotel), and I wish he didn't write so metaphysically.

---

### Comment 2
**Author:** James Hardman
**Date:** January 19, 2012 at 3:41

Nice. I wanna have a copy of "Do It Tomorrow". Really nice books. Do you have a digital version of it?

---

### Comment 3
**Author:** will
**Date:** January 19, 2012 at 10:33

I love it: the new books section is both cleaner and more comprehensive than the old site.I'm just implementing GTD at work as part of a company wide initiative. Wondering how the combination with AF that you refer to would work. I've always seen them as alternatives.

---

### Comment 4
**Author:** Bepi
**Date:** January 22, 2012 at 5:10

Red the 1st chapter on the website and ordered the book! The analogy of the lizard is brilliant.
Like James I'd liked to buy the digital version, in order to have it now and...read it tomorrow! Thank you.

---

### Comment 5
**Author:** Savannah Banks
**Date:** October 19, 2022 at 1:06

Desperately want to read "pathway to awesomeness"!
Is it available ANYWHERE!?
I’ve searched and searched!S

---

### Comment 6
**Author:** Don R
**Date:** October 19, 2022 at 1:53

It's not on Amazon anymore apparently but I would have thought it was in my Kindle library from buying the ebook there previously, but it's not there either. Then again, I just searched my emails and I have a receipt for "Secrets of Productive People" but not "Pathway to Awesomeness" so maybe not. Does anyone else have it in their Kindle library?

---

### Comment 7
**Author:** Seraphim
**Date:** October 19, 2022 at 21:24

Yes I have a Kindle version of Pathway to Awesomeness.The publisher (Hyperink) seems to have gone out of business.[http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2013/10/16/the-pathway-to-awesomeness.html](2013-10-16-the-pathway-to-awesomeness.md)

---

### Comment 8
**Author:** Don R
**Date:** October 20, 2022 at 2:57

I did find the receipt in my email after all. I found I had it on my physical Kindle (just not in the Kindle app on my phone). I must have the PDF saved on an old computer potentially. Let's see what Mark thinks of making it available for download now that the original publisher is out of business (if that's an option). I'm looking at the preface and it says its drawn from a selection of articles from the blog here. Also, it's not a system. Looks like the chapters have the blog date on them so we could potentially just have a list of blog post links.

---
