---
title: "Reverse AF2"
author: "Mark Forster"
date: 2020-02-11
original_url: "http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2020/2/11/reverse-af2.html"
layout: post
---

The sharp-eyed among you will have noticed that I have changed my own entry for the Lenten Challenge to something called Reverse AF2.

This is a long-list method, and consists of scanning the list from the beginning each time you select a new task. This is unlike Simple Scanning in which you scan the list from the task you have just done, and unlike AF2 in which you scan from the end of the list each time (which is why it’s called Reverse AF2).

The main advantages are:

1) It puts most emphasis on the beginning of the list.

2) It gives a sense of purpose as if you were pushing through the list.

The main disadvantage is that you are not continuously scanning the whole list as you would in Simple Scanning. However I’ve not yet found this to be a problem. I find I tend to be aware of what is at the end of the list because they are either new tasks which I’ve just entered or re-entered tasks which are on my mind anyway.


## Comments

---

**Author:** Caibre65
**Date:** 2020-02-12

Have you considered doing this with the page lock method you suggested for improving AF2?

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2020-02-12

Caibre65  
  
Yes, I did. It becomes very similar to AF1 if you do that - which may be no bad thing, but it loses much of the sense of forward movement and purpose which is such a feature of it.

---

**Author:** Paul MacNeil
**Date:** 2020-02-13

Is there dismissal in reverse AF2?

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2020-02-13

Paul MacNeill:  
  
No, I didn't feel it was necessary as one is constantly scanning the beginning of the list. The idea is that you get fed up with having the earlier tasks being there the whole time with the result that you either do them or decide you're not going to do them at all.

---

**Author:** Ville
**Date:** 2020-02-14

If there's no formal dismissal, is the Reverse AF2 then just like Simple Scanning except that you restart scanning from the oldest undone task every time after finishing to work on the previous task?

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2020-02-14

Ville:  
  
That's correct.

---
