---
title: "Reverse AF2"
author: "Mark Forster"
date: 2020-04-27
original_url: "http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2020/4/27/reverse-af2.html"
layout: post
---

At the moment I’ve gone back to Reverse AF2, which was one of the contenders for my entry in the Lenten Challenge 2010.

Judging by the amount of success I’m having with it now, I’d have probably stayed the course if I’d entered it as my system for the Challenge. As it was I made a bad call and made using no system at all my entry  - that didn’t last long!

If anyone is looking for a very simple system which puts the emphasis on the oldest items on the list, but can still react to urgent stuff, then I recommend them to try it.

The shorter your list, the better the method works. So it’s best to use it with a day list, i.e. a list of what you intend to do that day.


## Comments

---

**Author:** Alan Baljeu
**Date:** 2020-04-30

Strangely this post doesn't get listed on the right margin. It took a reference in the forum to even realize you had written something.  
  
Coincidentally I appear to be following the pattern of AF2 in processing my day's work. Mainly I just work away, but when a question comes up about my work that gets noted as something to address. And I either jump on that immediately, or when I'm done with my current task/project, I look at my notes and take the most recent thing that stands out. As a project starts coming together eventually lots of outstanding tasks get all resolved one after the other and I'm looking further up the list for things to tackle.

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2020-05-01

Alan:  
  
There is not, and never has been, a list of new posts in the right margin. There are lists of new comments and most popular articles - that's all.

---

**Author:** Vincent
**Date:** 2020-05-05

I've used long lists for years (I started my personal organisation journey as a Getting Things Done fanboy) but finally found that a few items at the top of my list get fossilized, and thus untouchable and depressing.  
  
Do It Tomorrow remain my favourite way of handling tasks, along with the Very Simple System from SoPP. I reread the books every 6 months, always with profit.  
  
Is there any chance that we will get another book from you, Mark ? (even a 2nd edition of DIT would be great!)

---

**Author:** Melanie Wilson
**Date:** 2020-06-25

Mark, have you continued using this approach? I use a schedule most of the time. But when I feel stuck, I use a randomizer. In present circumstances, I am wanting to try something new to make work feel more exciting. I’m going to try Reverse AF2.

---

**Author:** Mark Forster
**Date:** 2020-06-25

Melanie:  
  
Yes, I've been using Reverse AF2 recently. It is very effective, but too long a list will defeat it. So it's best with a Day List as I recommended.

---

**Author:** Alan Baljeu
**Date:** 2020-06-25

AF2-style is how i do my office work. I tend to work one thing at a but take notes as I go of what needs doing and questions I have. When I finish a task a scan my notes from the bottom for something I am ready to do. But it isn't a little and often process. I generally stick to a task until done or interrupted.

---

**Author:** Melanie Wilson
**Date:** 2020-06-27

Mark, thank you! I am eager to try it tomorrow.

---
